What happens when we request for a video to play on Youtube?

Let's see the entire journey of data.

The video we're trying to access is located somewhere inside an SSD drive of a data centre.

One way for data to travel is the use of satellites.

From the data centre a signal could be sent by satellite via antenna
and from the satellite a signal could be sent to our mobile phone via another antenna near to us.

However, this way of transmitting signals is not a good idea. Why?

Satellites are located almost 20,000 km away from earth, so in order for a data
transmission to be successful, it has to travel 40,000 km which is a very long distance.

Such a distance would cause significant delay in receiving the signals.
More specifically, it causes huge latency which is unacceptable for many application.

So, if the data do not travel via satellites, how do they travel?

It's done with a complicated network of optical fibre cables which connect b/w the data centre
and the device

Our phone can connect to the internet via cellular data (via towers) or any wifi router
but at some point, your phone will be connected to the network of optical fibre cables

As we know that the video we are watching is within the SSD device of the data centre
This SSD access the internal memory of the server.

This server basically are powerful computers whose job is to provide the video or other 
contents when we request it

Now the challenge is how to transfer the data stored inside the data center 
specifically to our device via a complex network of optical fibre cables

Here comes the role of an IP address.

IP address acts as a shipping address to which all information reaches its destination.

My ISP (internet service provider) decides the IP address of my device.

The server in the data center also has an IP address.

The server stores a website, so we can access the website just by knowing the IP address
(basically domain names) of that website.

Another thing to notice here, A server has the capability of storing multiple websites. 

And if the server consists of multiple websites, all the websites cannot be accessed with
the server's IP address.

In such cases, addtional pieces of information (host headers) are used to uniquely identify 
the website.

However, for giant websites like Facebook, Amazon, Youtube, Google etc
an entire data center is dedicated to the storage of that particular website.

--------------------------------

To access the internet, we use domain names instead of complex IP address

From where does the internet gets IP addresses corresponding to our domain name request?

For this purpose, the internet uses a huge 'phonebook' called DNS.

If we don't know a person's phone number we just search by their name.
Same goes for DNS.

Your ISP or other organizations manages the DNS server

Let watch the whole operation:

I entered a domain name into my pc (youtube.com) 

The browser sends the request to the DNS Server to get the corresponding IP Address

After getting the IP address, the browser simply forwards the request to the data centre.
More specifically, to the respective servers.

Once the server gets the request to access the particular website, the data flow starts.

The data is transferred in digital format via optical fibre cables.

More specifically, in the form of light pulses

These light pulses sometimes have to travel thousands of miles via the optical fibre cable 
to reach their destination.

During their journey, they often have to travel through tough terrains such as hilly areas,
or under the sea.

There are some global companies that lay and maintain these optical cables.

Some companies are:
AT&T Verizon Google Orange

These optical fibre cables are the backbone of the internet.

These cables carrying the light are stretched accross the seabed to our doorstep
where they're connected to the router.

These routers convert those light signals to electrical signals.

The ethernet cables is then used to transmit the electrical signals to our laptop.

However, if we're using cellular data to access the internet, the optical cables are
connected to the cellular tower.

And from the cellular tower, the signal reaches our phone in the form of electromagnetic waves.


Since the internet is a global network, it has become important to manage things like:

- IP address assignment.
- Domain name registration.
- etc

These are all managed by an institution called ICANN (Internet Corporation for assigned names and numbers)
located in the USA.


One amazing thing about the Internet is its efficiency in transmitting data when compared to 
cellular and landline technologies.

The video we're watching from youtube data center is sent to us in the form of a huge collection
of 0s and 1s.

What makes the data transfer on the internet efficient is the way these 0s and 1s are chopped up
into small chunks called 'packets' and transmitted.


These 0s and 1s are divided into small packets by the server.
Where each packets consists of 6 bits.

Along with the bits of the video, 
each packets consists: 
1. Sequence no.
2. IP address of the server and our phone.

With these information the packets are 'routed' towards our phone.

It's not necessary that all the packets are routed through the same path
and each packets independently takes the best route available at that time.

Upon reaching our phone, the packets are reassembled a/c their sequence number.

In case if any packet failed to reach the phone, an acknowledgement is sent from the phone
to resend the lost packet

----------------------------------------------------------------

There are 'protocols' for the management of this complex flow of data packets.

Protocols set the rules for 'packet data conversion'

Attachment of the source and destination addresses to each packet and the rules for routers etc.

Some protocols:

1. TCP/IP - Transport data
2. http/https - Web access
3. RTP - Live video streaming and VOIP calls.

For different applicatins, the protocols used are different.
 