Every single day:
- we upload 4 Million hours of video on Youtube
- 600 million tweets.
- 70 Million Instagram pictures.
- 4.4 Billion of us use internet every single day

And, collectively we create:

2.5 exabytes i.e 2.5 million terabytes i.e 2.5 quintillion bytes of data every single day.

Internet it not the 'World Wide Web' though.

The 'web' is a great invention
it's the way the webpages, data, services and documents are arranged, accessed and addressed

But all of this sits on top of the 'hardware' that is the 'Internet'
which allows many many networks to talk to each other in a very 'clever way'

Here's how it works:

We want to watch a video of a cat.

We request for that video on Youtube (or any other video streaming platform).

that request shoots out of our device and travel accross the globe where the video is stored.

Here's it gets really clever.

sending one video in one go down one route will mean it will get stuck in traffic and
may take ages

So the video gets 'torn apart' and split up into multiple packets.

Each packet makes its own way beck down different routes.

And when they start arriving back at our device, they gets juggled into the right order.

And when enough of the start of the video has arrived we see the video

This is how information spreads accorss the world.


At the very basic level, the Internet is a 'wire'

The internet is useful because two computers connected to this 'wire' can communicate.

A server is a special computer directly connected to this 'wire'.

and Web pages and files exist on that server's hard drive.

Each server has a unique 'Internet Protocol' address.
Just like postal address, IP address help computers find each other.


Here's how it all works:

Your computer at home is not a server. As it's not directly connected to 'the wire'.

Computer we use everyday are called 'clients'. As we're indirectly connected to the internet
through ISP (internet service provider)


Routers:

Me and Uncle Dhoni is using the internet on separate computers.

I'm updating my facebook profile page.
Uncle Dhoni is doing market research.

We're both sending packets back and forth over the internet.

But what's to keep my packets from accidently ending up on my Uncle's computer screen.

Solution is:

- IP address
- Routers

Everything connected directly or indirectly to the internet has an IP address including
computers, phones, servers and all of the equipment in between.

Anywhere two or more parts of the internet intersect, 
there's a piece of equipment called 'router'

Routers direct the packets around the internet, 
helping each packet get one step closer to its destination.

Every time we visit a website, there's probably 10-15 routers helping packets
make their way to and from the computer

Imagine each packet as a piece of candy wrapped in several layers.

The first layer is our computer's IP address.

Our computer sends the packet to the first router which adds it's own IP Address.

Each time a packet reaches a new router, 
another layer is added until it reaches the server.

Then, when the server sends back information, 
it creates packets with identical wrapping.

As the packets make their way over the internet back to our computer,
each router unwraps the layer 
to discover what's in the packet next until it reaches our computer and not our uncle's.