This section discusses about the different units of CSS.

Types of units:
1. Absolute units
2. Relative units.

ABSOLUTE UNIT:

Absolute units are units that remain the same in any context.

It's size do not change relative to anything else on the page.

In CSS, there is only one absolute unit that we should use is 'px' and not 'cm' or 'inch' etc.


RELATIVE UNIT:

Relative units are units that can change based on their context.

em and rem are relative units.

em and rem both refers to font size, though they are often used to define other sizes in CSS.

As a rule of thumb, use rem.

1em is the size of the element, or the parent (if we are using element's parent to set 
the font size).

<div class="container">Container
        <div class="child">Child</div>
</div>

so here, if we set size of container to 40px, and set child to font-size of 1em, then
child also becomes 40px font-size.

but, if we use 1rem on child element, then the font-size of child gets the font-size of
html (16px default).

if we changed the html font-size to 35px, and set child font-size to 1rem, then font-size of
child becomes 35px.

Summary:

em gives the size of the parent element to child element.
rem gives size of root element (html) to child element.

It is recommended to use rem to define font size accross the website.


VIEWPORT UNITS:

-vh (viewport height)
-vw (viewport width)

1vh means 1% of viewport height.
1vw means 1% of viewport width.

These are useful when we want something to be sized relative to the viewport.
or, full-height heroes or full-screen app like interface.



CSS VALUES AND UNITS:

CSS rules contain declaration.

declarations are composed of 'property' and 'value'.

Each property has a 'value type'

'value type' describes what kind of values that property is allowed to have.

the term 'value type' and 'data type' are interchangable.

term 'data type' is a fancy way of saying 'value type'


PERCENTAGE:

Percentages are set relative to some other value (parent).

if we set 25% font-size of child element, it means that the child element's font-size 
will be 25% of the font-size of parent element.

same goes for width or any other value.


RULE OF THUMB:

- Use rem for font-size.
- Use px for other things (margin/padding)

read article : https://codyloyd.com/2021/css-units/


--------------------------------------------------------------------


VIEWPORT UNITS:

Four new viewport 'relative' units appeared in CSS in 2011-2015.

vw vh vmin vmax 

these works similarly to existing length units like px or em, 
but represent a percentage of current browser's viewport.

Viewport width (vw):

A percentage of the full viewport width. 10vw is 10% of current viewport width

difference b/w % and vw is similar to difference b/w em and rem.


Viewport height (vh):

A percentage of full viewport height. 10vh is 10% of current viewport height.


Viewport minimum (vmin):

A percentage of viewport width or height, whichever is smaller.

10vmin is 10% of current viewport width in portrait orientation, 
and 10% of viewport height on landscape orientation.


Viewport maximum (vmax):

A percentage of viewport height or width in whichever is larger.

10vmax means 10% of current viewport height in portrait orientation,
and 10% of viewport width in landscape orientation.